so how did I quit video games we had
been playing all night long and we were
stuck on this one mission and now
finally it's like four o'clock in the
morning and the time just the time just
melts by when you're playing these types
of games do you understand it was like
just it seemed like just an hour ago it
was like five o'clock at night I was
just like I can't do this don't get me
wrong I still play video games gaming
has influenced my life in a huge way I I
love video games I'll probably always
play video games
I missed it completely out on the ps3
and here we are at the ps4 the ps4 is
reeling me back in there are a lot of
guys performing these monologues
explaining to you how they quit video
games on YouTube but if you actually
listen to the whole hog they didn't quit
video games they say things maybe at the
beginning maybe at the end maybe
peppered in between that indicate
they're still playing video games
they're always gonna play okay so what
what's the point of this monologue
what's this milestone or this you know
new moral attitude to life you gain if
you're still playing video games I used
to have a very substantial video game
collection and I moved in with a girl
and we live together for about three
years and we fought like cats and dogs
what a couples fight about the laundry
the who's doing the dishes or you know
who's taking out the garbage me and my
girlfriend got into a huge argument
one day and the following day I went to
work and when I got home I went
downstairs to my to my lair and
everything was gone I freaked out I mean
I know I know you guys have video game
collections and I've seen them online
and and just imagine for a second you
know if you came home and all your stuff
was gone I mean gone I mean the shelves
gone everything was gone
so my girlfriend got home and I
confronted her about it and she said she
took all of it and she chucked it in a
dumpster and when I asked away she threw
it out she wouldn't tell me and I belted
her in the face and with the kind of
luck I have I wound up breaking her jaw
and went to jail for about a year and a
half for it and while I was in jail I
when I wasn't eating sleeping or gettin
I was in the library on a computer and I
was watching some game I would watch
game review channels on YouTube that's
what I would do and I said man I said
this is great I said these guys a lot of
these guys have impressive stuff and I
said hey this is something I feel I can
do this is something that I'm passionate
about and that was my thing you know I
said when I get out I'm gonna do this
I'm gonna I'm gonna make this happen I'd
like to start with a few comments that I
saw on my previous video where I
mentioned video games a couple of the
comments were I don't know about you I
enjoy gaming as a kid another one was
it's not wasted time if you enjoy it and
I did enjoy playing sometimes you see I
do enjoy gaming I enjoy gaming a lot
I enjoy gaming so much that even when I
didn't enjoy gaming I would play games
and maybe that tells you something
gaming made me realize there was an
inherent disconnect with myself with who
I thought I was or who I thought I could
be specifically there was a large
difference and how I talked to people
online in video games and how I talked
to people in person online I was bubbly
and outgoing and I was emoji I don't
know if that's an adjective anymore but
I would always send lots of happy faces
and I don't even text with emojis but
for some reason in online games I'm this
totally different kind of outgoing
person that I'm not in real life
whenever we would make jokes in the chat
I would always know exactly what
but if you were to come at me in person
and like a rap battle I'd have like no
idea what to say I'm terrible at
thinking on my feet in person
but I can think on my keyboard if that's
a thing I would play games to avoid
starting something like a passion
project I would play games just to keep
that feeling of progression I would play
games just to pass the time I would play
games just because peer pressure and all
my friends were on and they wanted me to
come on so uh and I got the Xbox because
all my friends were playing Ghost Recon
and I remember them telling me oh this
is so cool you know we go out and groups
or whatever and we you know we've all
played together we all all gone they
talked me into it
and I remember I remember playing with
my buddy Frank one night and we do
admissions together and I remember we
got stuck on this one mission it was
really hard it was like Frank had to run
ahead to a spot I had to give him like
cover fire and then I would run up to
the spot and he would cover cover me
with fire and it was like this really
difficult part of the game and we had
been playing all night long and we were
stuck on this one mission and then now
finally it's like four o'clock in the
morning and the time just the time just
melts by when you're playing these types
of games do you understand it was like
just that it seemed like just an hour
ago it's like five o'clock at night and
now it's four o'clock in the morning oh
yeah and I remember just like being like
I didn't want to stop playing but I was
like I gotta I gotta get to bed I
thought I had worked the next day I
gotta get to bed this is ridiculous
Gaming has influenced my life in a huge
way I I love video games I'll probably
always play video games all that space I
have up here memorized for raid bosses
and different Talent specs and all this
stuff that got outdated continuously
like why didn't I use that space for
something that I could carry on with
like a language or something there's so
much space up here that I used for WoW
and video game tactics that I can't
actually use anywhere else so how did I
quit video games I was working my dev
job and then they let everyone go and I
lost
job looking back on it I was kind of
forced into it forced into not having to
focus on video games anymore when you're
watching the world around you kind of
fall apart a Lawson rank doesn't mean
anything when you're about to lose your
car a level up in a video game doesn't
mean anything when you have no idea
where your dogs are gonna live when you
get kicked out are you gonna put him
back in the shelter a new item in game
that gives you more power it doesn't
mean anything when you're just wondering
how you're gonna buy food next week none
of what I did in the video games
mattered
Paul Bashir the political leader in
charge of anonymous of the voiceless
Paul Bashir one of the few hit videos on
his YouTube channel is him allegedly
talking about smoking marijuana it's
only five minutes long that video but if
you really pay attention he's telling
you he does not plan to quit okay Farah
wada he's talking about how hard it is
from just take a couple months off take
a break for a couple months but he's not
committed to sobriety he's not committed
to critical quit means quit there's a
difference between pause and quit you
might think that video game addicts
would be familiar with that that it was
being pausing and quitting we're talking
about here is quit it homeboy
but I think maybe on a deeper more more
unconscious level what they're doing in
performing these monologues is playing a
game
it is portraying a fictional character
you know maybe without without realizing
it maybe they're talking about hopes and
aspirations this other person whether
that's the person they depict on YouTube
or maybe a person they aspire to be
I had a friend friend from high school
and then I didn't talk to him about ten
years so let's say he and I were friends
at 17 then we met again aged 27 and he
told me this story and I was laughing
and he wasn't he told me the story about
how you know he'd been collecting comic
books continuously from childhood
through the 27 when we had this
conversation and the comic book
collection it took over his bedroom the
bedroom in his parents house and he had
moved out and was living in an apartment
but this whole bedroom is full comic
books and I don't know
what the situation was but he goes to
this bed you know so he's dropping
things off and picking them up at his
parents house to keep this comic book
collection going and he's making love to
his girlfriend at the time he's a fully
grown man with a girlfriend and the job
and responsibilities and stuff at age 27
or something he's making love to his to
his girlfriend and his comic book
collection literally collapses on his
head he's got so much weight on the
upper the upper floor of his bunk bed
he's got these boxes and boxes and with
several hundred pounds of paper and
plastic he who comes crashing down on
the two of them love they're making love
and I'm laughing it and it's okay so so
what's the end of the story
is this where you finally made the
resolution to stop collecting confident
and he looks at me stunned like it never
even occurred he was like oh no no no he
just relocated the boxes to the base
mutters like you know he came up with a
new plan for how he can keep a mass and
comic books keep spending his time and
money doing this but look guys comic
book collecting I don't know anyone who
has stories of staying awake until 4:00
a.m. or 5:00 a.m. reading comic books
and then going to work the next morning
completely exhausted I don't I don't
know about that I don't know but this
kind of really negative impact in your
life and guys if I had done that just
once with anything if I stayed up till
4:00 a.m. or 5:00 a.m.
doesn't matter what the activity was
with his video games or comic books
those I'd be deeply ashamed of what I'd
done that night and at the impact that
was having in my life if I did that just
once and the nature of video game
playing not even video game addiction
just a video game playing is that people
do this again and again and again and
these are grown men who keep making the
excuses to do it again and again and
again even after they come on YouTube
and give us these monologues telling us
about how they quit when what they
really mean is they hit the pause button
I'd say the thing that that really put
me what the end of my video game career
to me is very
and it was like I was like towards the
end I was just fly under it and then all
started with sixty four-bit I blame it
on 64-bits when the Dreamcast came out I
remember me and Phil had gone to this
game store and we saw a Power Stone and
we was just like wow what is this all
about and it was like oh my god but the
idea of getting a Dreamcast at that time
we had no money man
we just at this point we had no money
and what really oh what made me buy the
dream maybe I paid more than that for it
because I wanted Phantasy Star Online oh
this is like this is like my glimmering
hope this was what was gonna bring me
back into gaming
I got Phantasy Star Online and a
Dreamcast and I remember taking it home
and connecting it to the Internet oh
yeah
and remember you would go to that hub
world where everybody was running around
but what really sealed the deal for me
is I remember I was moved in with this
girl and I'm playing Phantasy Star
Online and I got the headset on and I
remember I think I was probably even
like Yellin to somebody or yelling at
somebody or something like that and I
remember my girlfriend come home from
work and she comes through the door and
I'm like I'm like in bed in my pajamas
propped up and I'm yelling and I got I
got the [ __ ] headset on and the
joystick I mean the turret the Dreamcast
joystick was like this like this [ __ ]
like whammo frisbee in your hand and she
walks through the door and I'll never
forget like the look of disappointment
in their eyes and I look at her and I
just had like this look of guilt on my
face because it was like yeah she comes
home from a hard day's work we're in
this apartment thing together now this
is like the first time I ever moved out
and I was just like I can't do this in
my mind I just I can't do that it was
fun but I was like this it doesn't it
doesn't fly it just doesn't fly all the
confidence and all of that I'm a
different person online and everyone
enjoys me here I couldn't take that into
real life now I have to snap back into
me I'm this great player online but in
person I'm just I got to snap back to
not being whatever I wanted to be you
need to set yourself up in a life
situation where video games doesn't
matter everything else is more important
which can be hard to do if you're forced
to do it yourself don't get me wrong I
still play video games
[Music]